---
title: v6.5 EE Release Notes
permalink: /release-notes/release-6.5-ee
---

> This document was translated by ChatGPT

# Zero Intrusion

## Tracing

- AutoTracing
  - ⭐ Enhanced the ability to extract TraceID and SpanID from SQL statement comments, support parsing variable values in precompiled SQL statements, and support collecting login usernames and current database names. [See documentation here](../features/l7-protocols/sql/#mysql).
  - ⭐ Added parsing capability for the bRPC protocol. [See documentation here](../features/l7-protocols/rpc/#brpc).
  - ⭐ Added parsing capabilities for RabbitMQ AMQP, ActiveMQ OpenWire, NATS, ZeroMQ, and Pulsar protocols. [See documentation here](../features/l7-protocols/mq/).
  - ⭐ Enhanced Kafka protocol parsing: added the ability to parse Partition, Offset, GroupID fields, and JoinGroup, LeaveGroup, SyncGroup messages; support extracting `correlation_id` from Kafka protocol headers as `x_request_id_0/1`, automatically tracing Kafka call chains in Request-Response mode; support extracting SpanID from traceparent and sw8 in protocol headers, enhancing tracing capabilities. [See documentation here](../features/l7-protocols/mq/#kafka).
  - ⭐ Support using Wasm Plugin to enhance the parsing of Dubbo, NATS, and ZeroMQ protocols. [See demo here](https://github.com/deepflowio/deepflow-wasm-go-sdk/blob/main/example/).
  - Support parsing Kryo serialization format for Dubbo protocol. [See documentation here](../features/l7-protocols/rpc/#dubbo).
  - Mark MySQL unidirectional messages (`CLOSE`, `QUIT`) log type directly as session.
  - Added `captured_request_byte` and `captured_response_byte` metrics to call logs. [See documentation here](https://github.com/deepflowio/deepflow/blob/main/server/querier/db_descriptions/clickhouse/metrics/flow_log/l7_flow_log.ch#L8).
  - Enhanced the parsing capability of `X-Tingyun` TraceID.
- AutoTagging
  - ⭐ Added `biz_type` tag to application metrics and call logs, which can be used with Wasm Plugin to identify business types.
  - ⭐ Kafka protocol supports extracting `topic_name` as `endpoint`. [See documentation here](../features/l7-protocols/mq/#kafka).
  - ⭐ Aggregated metrics no longer aggregate WAN server-side as `0.0.0.0`, and private IP addresses without any resource tags (192.168, 172.16, 10, 169.254) are no longer marked as WAN.
  - ⭐ Support custom collection of HTTP/HTTP2/gRPC header fields and store them in the `attribute.$field_name` field of call logs. [See detailed documentation](../features/l7-protocols/http/#http).
  - For A/AAAA type DNS requests, extract `QNAME` as `request_domain`. [See documentation here](../features/l7-protocols/network/#dns).
  - FastCGI, MQTT, and DNS protocols support extracting the `endpoint` field. [See documentation here](../features/l7-protocols/overview/).
  - Added main IP (`pod_node_ip`, `chost_ip`) and hostname (`pod_node_hostname`, `chost_hostname`) tags for container nodes and cloud servers to all data.
  - The `auto_service` tag automatically aggregates container nodes (`pod_node`) into container clusters (`pod_cluster`), but `auto_instance` will not do this aggregation.
  - When a K8s workload (`pod_group`) is associated with multiple container services, the service name with the smallest dictionary order is used to mark the container service (`pod_service`) tag.
- Search Capabilities
  - Added syntax sugar field XX, which can be used to match either of the two original fields `XX_0` or `XX_1`. Supported fields include: `x_request_id`, `syscall_thread`, `syscall_coroutine`, `syscall_cap_seq`, `syscall_trace_id`, `tcp_seq`.
  - Added role grouping capability on the resource analysis page to distinguish statistics when resources act as clients or servers.
  - Optimized the loading speed when switching the search box to container search or process search mode.
  - The client and server columns in the aggregated data table support copy-pasting to the search bar.
  - When entering resource filter conditions, candidate options support hovering to prompt resource information.
- Usability Enhancements
  - ⭐ Linked call chain tracing with flow logs to view network performance metrics of Spans.
  - ⭐ Call chain tracing and topology analysis pages support using DeepFlow Stella agent for intelligent analysis and interpretation, supporting the GPT4 model.
  - Optimized the user experience of the search bar in "click search button to trigger" mode.
  - Support remembering the activated state of the Tab below the call chain tracing flame graph and stabilizing the Tab layout.
  - Linked highlighting of Spans in the call chain tracing flame graph and call logs in the table below.
  - Optimized the presentation of Span tracing in call chain tracing.
  - Optimized the parent-child logic of NET Spans in the call chain tracing flame graph.
  - Improved the zoom in and zoom out experience of the topology graph.
  - Enhanced the usability of copying knowledge graph tags.
  - Displayed delay 0 as N/A in tables.
  - Optimized the display of the "query area" in data tags.
  - Support displaying resource icons by application protocol.

## Profiling

- AutoProfiling
  - ⭐ Support Off-CPU Profiling, low overhead, continuous operation, can be used to quickly locate bottleneck functions when application performance is low but CPU usage is not high.
- Usability Enhancements
  - ⭐ Performance profiling flame graph supports using DeepFlow Stella agent for intelligent analysis and interpretation, supporting the GPT4 model.
  - Changed the first line name in the flame graph from root to `$app_service`, which is the process name collected by eBPF or the service name set internally by the application.
  - Optimized the loading speed when switching the search box to container search or process search mode.
  - Differentiated the types of function names displayed in the eBPF flame graph: kernel functions, dynamic library functions, application functions.
  - Optimized the Tip display of the eBPF flame graph.

## Network

- AutoMetrics
  - Exposed traffic distribution metrics, supporting monitoring of traffic rates matching specific traffic distribution strategies.
  - Renamed anomaly metrics: Connection-Client SYN End (`client_syn_repeat`) renamed to Connection-Server SYN Missing (`server_syn_miss`) and included in `server anomalies`.
  - Renamed anomaly metrics: Connection-Server SYN End (`server_syn_repeat`) renamed to Connection-Client ACK Missing (`client_ack_miss`) and included in `client anomalies`.
  - Set the status of flow logs with TCP disconnection anomalies to normal.
- AutoTagging
  - ⭐ Added `request_domain` field to network flow logs, automatically associating with application metrics and call logs.
  - ⭐ Aggregated metrics no longer aggregate WAN server-side as `0.0.0.0`, and private IP addresses without any resource tags (192.168, 172.16, 10, 169.254) are no longer marked as WAN.
  - Added main IP (`pod_node_ip`, `chost_ip`) and hostname (`pod_node_hostname`, `chost_hostname`) tags for container nodes and cloud servers to all data.
  - The `auto_service` tag automatically aggregates container nodes (`pod_node`) into container clusters (`pod_cluster`), but `auto_instance` will not do this aggregation.
  - When a K8s workload (`pod_group`) is associated with multiple container services, the service name with the smallest dictionary order is used to mark the container service (`pod_service`) tag.
- Search Capabilities
  - Added syntax sugar field XX, which can be used to match either of the two original fields `XX_0` or `XX_1`. Supported fields include: `tunnel_tx_ip`, `tunnel_rx_ip`, `tunnel_tx_mac`, `tunnel_rx_mac`, `tcp_seq`.
  - Added role grouping capability on the resource analysis page to distinguish statistics when resources act as clients or servers.
  - Optimized the loading speed when switching the search box to container search or process search mode.
  - The client and server columns in the aggregated data table support copy-pasting to the search bar.
  - When entering resource filter conditions, candidate options support hovering to prompt resource information.
- Usability Enhancements
  - ⭐ Topology analysis page supports using DeepFlow Stella agent for intelligent analysis and interpretation, supporting the GPT4 model.
  - Optimized the user experience of the search bar in "click search button to trigger" mode.
  - Improved the zoom in and zoom out experience of the topology graph.
  - Enhanced the usability of copying knowledge graph tags.
  - Displayed delay 0 as N/A in tables.
  - Optimized the display of the "query area" in data tags.
  - Optimized the display of the access relationship right slide-out panel.

# Customization

## Dashboard

- Panel Enhancements
  - ⭐ Added text-type Panels, supporting Markdown and Mermaid syntax.
  - ⭐ Support adding Markdown descriptions to Panels.
  - ⭐ Support customizing the right slide-out panel Tab page for all Panels, automatically associating the data displayed in the Tab page.
  - Panels with multiple query conditions support waking up the right slide-out panel, automatically associating all observability data.
  - The background curve of the overview chart supports hiding the coordinate axis.
  - Optimized the color selection box on the Panel editing page.
  - Optimized the style, metric settings, and advanced settings of Panels.
- Usability Enhancements
  - Support copying and cloning Panels.
  - Added metric setting function to the Panel editing box.
  - The detail table supports sorting by start time and end time columns.
  - The list page supports sorting by name, creator, and modification time.
  - Optimized the ability to set icon information in the Panel editing box.
  - Optimized the interaction of the new Panel creation box.
  - Optimized the legend display of line charts, bar charts, and pie charts.
  - Moved the modify metric button of Panels into the right slide-out panel for editing.
  - Optimized the layout and style of the Panel page, and optimized the layout and style of the right slide-out panel for editing Panels.
  - Split the Dashboard list into two pages: custom Dashboards and built-in Dashboards.
  - Support switching the chart type of Panels.
  - Optimized the search module on the Panel editing page.

## Universal Map

- Usability Enhancements
  - ⭐ Optimized data display in the physical network section, enhancing the usability of "cloud and on-premises integrated monitoring".
  - Support batch (multi-select client services, server services) definition of paths in the business.
  - Improved the zoom in and zoom out experience of the topology graph.
  - Optimized the operation experience in the topology graph editing mode, and optimized the operation experience of arranging services and service groups in the topology graph.
  - Optimized the operation experience of the right slide-out panel in the universal map.

# Integration

## Metrics

- Metric Templates
  - ⭐ Added metric template management capabilities, facilitating quick selection of metric sets on tracing, network, and Dashboard pages.

## Logs

- ⭐ Support integration with application logs collected by [Datadog Vector](https://vector.dev/).

# Operations

## Alerts

- Alert Policies
  - ⭐ Enhanced granularity: added configuration capabilities for monitoring frequency and monitoring intervals.
  - ⭐ Refined event types: added configuration capabilities for recovery events and information events.
- Push Endpoints
  - Added Kafka push endpoint, supporting Plain type SASL authentication.
- System Alerts
  - When the disk space where ClickHouse is located is insufficient, deepflow-server will perform a forced cleanup, triggering a built-in system alert to notify the user.
  - Added more comprehensive metrics to the alert for collector data loss.
- Usability Enhancements
  - Optimized the display of the alert policy list and alert event list.

## Reports

N/A

# Management

## Resources

- AutoTagging
  - ⭐ Significantly improved the real-time performance of K8s tag injection. The previous code path involved 5 independent 1-minute timers, while the optimized path only involves 1 10-second timer and 1 1-minute timer. **The worst-case delay is reduced from 5 minutes to 1 minute and 20 seconds** (the agent's list/watch of K8s resources may span two cycles, so the worst-case delay may be 20 seconds).
  - Enhanced the ability to synchronize resource information with Ping An Cloud, supporting the acquisition of CIDR for tenant Pods in Serverless clusters.
  - By default, the enterprise edition disables the Agent from automatically triggering the generation of Kubernetes-type cloud platforms, simplifying the deployment steps in On-Prem mode.
  - Support synchronizing custom tags of cloud servers in Alibaba Cloud and automatically injecting `cloud.tag.$key` tag fields into all observability data.
  - Decoupled the synchronization of cloud resources and container resources, so that errors in the public cloud API do not affect the synchronization of container resource tags.
- Usability Improvements
  - Excluded deleted resources from the resource count displayed in the knowledge graph.

## System

- SQL API
  - ⭐ Optimized the Percentile operator for Delay and BoundedGauge type metrics, reducing the number of layers in the compiled ClickHouse SQL to one.
  - Modified ClickHouse table names and field names, see the table at the end (deprecated names can still be used, <mark>but will no longer be supported starting from v7.0</mark>).
  - Data in the `flow_log` and `event` databases support precise search using the `_id` field.
  - Simplified the query semantics of map-type fields for easier user understanding.
- Server
  - ⭐ Added Kafka Exporter data export method. [See documentation here](../integration/output/export/kafka-exporter/), supporting the export of the following observability signals:
    - Metrics: `flow_metrics.application*` (application performance metrics/access relationships), `flow_metrics.network*` (network performance metrics/access relationships).
    - Logs: `flow_log.l4_flow_log` (network flow logs), `flow_log.l7_flow_log` (application call logs).
    - Events: `event.perf_event` (file read/write events).
  - Prometheus Remote Write supports exporting metrics from `flow_metrics.application*` and `flow_metrics.network*`.
  - Added a global configuration for whether the Agent requests the Server NAT IP, suitable for scenarios where all Agents request the Server through the public network.
  - Added a Token management page and optimized the Token timeout determination mechanism.
  - Traffic distribution strategies support export and import.
- Agent
  - ⭐ Default enabled system load circuit breaker mechanism. When the ratio of system load to CPU cores exceeds `system_load_circuit_breaker_threshold`, the Agent triggers the circuit breaker mechanism, automatically entering a disabled state and alerting. Configuration details can be found in the Agent configuration sample.
  - ⭐ Optimized Redis and MySQL protocol parsing performance: after optimization, an Agent with 1 CPU and 300MB memory can collect 50K TPS MySQL or Redis traffic.
  - Added `flow-count-limit` configuration parameter to prevent the Agent from consuming too much memory under sudden traffic, avoiding triggering the OOM Killer.
  - ⭐ Improved HTTP2 Huffman decoding performance. Under the condition of limited 1 logical core, the extreme TPS collection performance **increased by 5 to 25 times**. Test data is shown in the table below.
  - ⭐ Support configuring call log blacklist to reduce storage consumption, eliminate large delay metrics interference from health checks, and eliminate DNS NXDOMAIN anomaly interference.
  - ⭐ Support eBPF data out-of-order reordering and segment reassembly, enhancing the success rate of application protocol parsing.
  - Support collecting traffic from Open vSwitch Bond sub-interfaces and correctly aggregating them into flow logs and call logs.
  - Dedicated collectors support stripping ERSPAN, TEB, and VXLAN tunnel encapsulation from mirrored traffic.
  - Improved eBPF collection performance [test data to be supplemented].
  - Added 6443 (default port for K8s apiserver) to the default parsed ports for the TLS protocol.
  - Allowed collectors to remotely execute low-privilege debug commands.
- Deployment
  - Container-type collectors support remote upgrades. [See documentation here](../ce-install/upgrade/#远程升级-k8s-的-agent); support direct configuration of CPU and memory limits from the page. [See configuration parameters here](https://github.com/deepflowio/deepflow/blob/main/server/agent_config/example.yaml#L4).
  - Agent supports deployment via Docker Compose. [See documentation here](../ce-install/legacy-host/).
- Usability Improvements
  - ⭐ Added `AskGPT` Copilot to DeepFlow Topo and DeepFlow Tracing Panel in Grafana: [Demo1](https://ce-demo.deepflow.yunshan.net/d/Application_K8s_Pod_Map/application-k8s-pod-map), [Demo2](https://ce-demo.deepflow.yunshan.net/d/Distributed_Tracing/distributed-tracing). Currently supported models include **GPT4, Tongyi Qianwen, Wenxin Yiyan, ChatGLM**.
  - URLs in the page are URL-ized, supporting opening in a new page through the right-click menu.
  - Simplified the URL length of the page.

HTTP2 Collection Performance Comparison Test:
| Random Header Count | Version | Agent CPU | Agent Memory | TPS |
| ------------------- | ------- | --------- | ------------ | --- |
| 3 | OLD | 96% | 34 MB | 10K |
| | **NEW** | 97% | 94 MB | **50K** |
| 12 | OLD | 89% | 9 MB | 1.2K |
| | **NEW** | 93% | 112 MB | **30K** |

## Account

- Multi-Tenant Support
  - ⭐ Support creating multiple isolated organizations to meet the isolation needs of large enterprises with multiple subsidiaries and business units, and support joint operation of SaaS services with industry clouds.
  - Support setting tenant account permissions, including four roles: owner, maintainer, user, and guest.
  - Support dividing tenant accounts into teams according to the organizational structure and setting the visibility of resources within the team.
  - Support Google and GitHub account SSO.
- Usability Improvements
  - Added a preference settings page, allowing configuration of search box trigger methods, search box display forms, icon display, and other behaviors.

# Compatibility

## Incompatible Changes

- eBPF AutoProfiling
  - The units for `self_value` and `total_value` returned by the API `profile/ProfileTracing` have been changed to microseconds (µs). [See the documentation here](../features/continuous-profiling/data/), [and the change history here](https://github.com/deepflowio/docs/pull/494/files).
- AutoTagging
  - Synchronization of security group information in cloud resources is no longer supported.
- Server
  - The configuration method for Prometheus Remote Write has been adjusted. [See the documentation here](../integration/output/export/prometheus-remote-write/).
  - The configuration method for OpenTelemetry Exporter has been adjusted. [See the documentation here](../integration/output/export/opentelemetry-exporter/).
- Agent
  - The static configuration item `src-interfaces` has been merged into the dynamic configuration item `tap_interface_regex`, reducing configuration complexity in scenarios such as MACVlan, Huawei Cloud CCE Turbo, VMware, etc.

## Compatible Changes

Note: The following changes will no longer be compatible starting from v7.0.

Modifications to table names in the ClickHouse `flow_metrics` database:
| Old Name | New Name | Data Function |
| --------------------- | ----------------- | ----------------------------- |
| `vtap_app_port` | `application` | Application performance metrics for all services |
| `vtap_app_edge_port` | `application_map` | Application access relationships and their performance metrics |
| `vtap_flow_port` | `network` | Network performance metrics for all services |
| `vtap_flow_edge_port` | `network_map` | Network access relationships and their performance metrics |
| `vtap_acl` | `traffic_policy` | Network policy metrics (Enterprise Edition only) |

Modifications to field names in the ClickHouse database:
| Old Name | New Name | Data Function |
| ------------------- | ---------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| `vtap` | `agent` | Agent |
| `vtap_id` | `agent_id` | Agent ID |
| `tap_side` | `observation_point` | Observation point |
| `tap` | `capture_network_type` | Network location (Enterprise Edition only) |
| `tap_port` | `capture_nic` | Capture NIC identifier |
| `tap_port_name` | `capture_nic_name` | Capture NIC name |
| `tap_port_type` | `capture_nic_type` | Capture NIC type |
| `tap_port_host` | `capture_nic_host` | Host machine of the capture NIC (Enterprise Edition only) |
| `tap_port_chost` | `capture_nic_chost` | Cloud server of the capture NIC |
| `tap_port_pod_node` | `capture_nic_pod_node` | Container node of the capture NIC |

# Documentation

- Added a new [Agent Performance Tuning](../best-practice/agent-performance-tuning/) document.
- Added a deployment plan for scenarios where [deepflow-agent is not allowed to request apiserver](../best-practice/special-environment-deployment/#不允许-deepflow-agent-请求-apiserver).
- Added guidance for [running deepflow-agent as a non-root user](../best-practice/special-environment-deployment/#使用非-root-用户运行-deepflow-agent).
